# headlinesAnalyzer
Incomplete. News and Twitter analyzer using ElasticSearch and python Natural Language Processing Modules
# explanation
See overview.txt for explanation of program structure module by module
This program attempts to understand the interaction between the news, news sites and social media. 
First, it scrapes several news-sites using BeautifulSoup and saves these results to a PostgreSQL db. The programs are then parsed and analyzed with the help of the spaCy machine learning module to extract related names, places, and organizations. Then, the program clusters the headlines using the OPTICS text clustering algorithm in an attempt to gather all the headlines relating to the same story in one cluster (OPTICS was chosen since it does not need the number of clusters to be set beforehand and it finds clusters of varying density). At this point the Twitter API is used to generate streams of tweets filtered on keywords in the clusters (ex. "BLM", "Police" and "Portland" could be keywords for one cluster). These tweets are then sentiment analyzed (ie. are the tweets positive or negative) with the help of the TextBlob module. These results are then stored in postgreSQL for easy retrieval whenever desired.
The clusters and article headlines are indexed with ElasticSearch so that a user can search a story and related data can be found for the related clusters and headlines. 
New headlines do not have to be clustered with kmeans from scratch. Rather, new clusters are generated  from scratch every set time interval, and during that interval new headlines can be classified using k-nearest neighbors 
The program makes use of a great deal of data to parse the Headlines for names and places. This data is stored mostly in postgreSQL tables. This data is neccesary since testing showed that Machine Learning modules are usually not very good at telling the difference between last names, organizations, and places (ex. in one test, "Biden" was characterized as a 'geopolitical entity')
The program adds values and names to the database by scraping the web (this feature is complete for names already) automatically

# current state
The web-scraper is complete. The PostgreSQL tables holding Countries, Celebrities, etc. are still under construction, but are largely filled with data. The elasticsearch index for the articles and clusters have been created already but code to index the clusters and articles has not been written yet. The parser for headlines to extract places, people, organizations is under construction. The twitter stream modules are almost complete. The clustering algorithm has not been implemented yet. 
